docs/Deployments/index.md, before:

# Deployments

A running instance of an Open AD Kit system is referred to as a **Deployment**. A deployment is a specific combination of **Autoware services and tools**, configured to work together to achieve a particular task, such as a planning simulation or a full autonomous driving stack for a specific vehicle.

## Sample Deployments

Sample deployment configurations to help you get started. Recommended for **learning and development**.

- [Sample Deployments](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/openadkit/tree/main/deployments/samples)

## Demo Deployments

Demo deployment configurations that are specific to certain **use case scenarios**.

- [Demo Deployments](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/openadkit/tree/main/deployments/demos)

## Platform Deployments

Platform specific deployment configurations for production-ready [SOAFEE middleware platforms](https://www.soafee.io/). Learn more about the [Platforms](../Platforms/index.md).

- [AutoSD](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/openadkit/tree/main/deployments/platforms/autosd)
- EWAOL (TBD)

Commit message:

docs: refactor zenoh-bridge architecture and fix mkdocs configuration (#24)
* feat: zenoh-bridge migrating containers to cloud-edge model

* docs: Add zenoh-bridge deployment document

* docs: minor: fix wrong item and link

* docs: Update zenoh-bridge documents

complying with current directory structure

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

* docs: comply with mkdocs awesome-page style

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

* docs: fix mkdocs `.page` issue

This commit is to fix all the issue w.r.t. mkdocs.

`.page` is excluded so it will not be applied in the top tabs.

The old solution to maintain tab order is to add nav directly
in mkdocs.yaml, which will disble awesome-pages. same-dir also
is not compatible with awesome-pages.

Meanwhile, the non-existing pages mention in
quick-start/start-quide/.pages cause awesome-pages not to work as
expected. So I comment them out.

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

* docs: adjust zenoh-bridge doc

No redundant file remains.

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

* docs: update zenoh-bridge README.md link

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

* Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/main' into feat/zenoh-bridge/cloud-edge

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tzu-Ching Yang <shingekinocore@gmail.com>

docs/Deployments/index.md, after:

# Deployments

A running instance of an Open AD Kit system is referred to as a **Deployment**. A deployment is a specific combination of **Autoware services and tools**, configured to work together to achieve a particular task, such as a planning simulation or a full autonomous driving stack for a specific vehicle.

## Sample Deployments

Sample deployment configurations to help you get started. Recommended for **learning and development**.

- [Sample Deployments](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/openadkit/tree/main/deployments/samples)

## Demo Deployments

Demo deployment configurations that are specific to certain **use case scenarios**.

- [Demo Deployments](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/openadkit/tree/main/deployments/demos)
- [Zenoh-bridge](zenoh-bridge/index.md)

    The `zenoh-bridge` provides the communication backbone for the OpenADKit's distributed architecture. It demonstrates a "Cloud-Edge" deployment model by seamlessly bridging two isolated ROS 2 environments, decoupling compute-intensive components from lightweight visualization tools.

    In this model, the core `autoware` stack runs on an **edge device** (e.g., a vehicle or server), while the `visualizer` can be accessed remotely from a user's machine (the **cloud side**).

## Platform Deployments

Platform specific deployment configurations for production-ready [SOAFEE middleware platforms](https://www.soafee.io/). Learn more about the [Platforms](../Platforms/index.md).

- [AutoSD](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/openadkit/tree/main/deployments/platforms/autosd)
- EWAOL (TBD)
